Make sure your house and car remain smokefree.
Kids breathe in secondhand smoke at home more than any other place. The same goes for many adults.
Don't allow anyone to smoke in your home or car.
Make sure caretakers like nannies, babysitters, and day care staff do not smoke.
Eat at smokefree restaurants.
Avoid indoor public places that allow smoking.
Teach your children to stay away from secondhand smoke.
Don't smoke at home. Smoking in another room like a bathroom or bedroom can still spread secondhand smoke through the air in your home. In an apartment building, secondhand smoke can go in between apartments.
Don't smoke at home. Smoking outside in a hall or stairwell does not protect children inside. Smoke goes under doors, windows, and through cracks.
Don't smoke at home. Opening a window or using a fan does not protect children from secondhand smoke.
Don't smoke at home. Air purifiers and air fresheners do not remove secondhand smoke.
Smoke from one cigarette can stay in a room for hours. Don’t smoke at home, even when children aren’t there.
Don't smoke at home. Separating people who smoke from those who don’t smoke, cleaning the air and ventilating buildings does not fully protect children or adults from secondhand smoke.
If you smoke cigarettes, the best decision you can make for your health and your family’s health is to quit. Quitting smoking can be hard, and it can take many tries.
If a loved one smokes, support them by encouraging them to quit.
Get rid of all ashtrays and tobacco products in your home.
Don’t let anyone smoke in or around your house. If you have children or if you take care of children in your home, do not allow anyone to smoke there. Do not let babysitters or family and friends smoke around your children.
Don’t let anyone smoke in your car, even with the windows down. Putting the windows down does not protect people from secondhand smoke
Make sure smoking is not allowed at your child’s day care.
Protecting the people in your home also means not using other types of tobacco products, including e-cigarettes. The aerosol from e-cigarettes is not harmless. It can contain cancer-causing chemicals, heavy metals like nickel, tin, and lead, among other things.
Protecting the people in your home also means not using other types of tobacco products, including e-cigarettes. E-cigarettes are not safe for children, teens, young adults, pregnant adults, or people who do not already use tobacco.
