Quiting smoking improves health status and enhances quality of life.
Quiting smoking reduces the risk of premature death and can add as much as 10 years to life expectancy.
Quiting smoking reduces the risk for many adverse health effects, including poor reproductive health outcomes, cardiovascular diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and cancer.
Quiting smoking benefits people already diagnosed with coronary heart disease or COPD.
Quiting smoking benefits the health of pregnant women and their fetuses and babies.
Quiting smoking reduces the financial burden that smoking places on people who smoke, healthcare systems, and society.
While quitting earlier in life yields greater health benefits, quitting smoking is beneficial to health at any age. Even people who have smoked for many years or have smoked heavily will benefit from quitting.
Quitting smoking is the single best way to protect family members, coworkers, friends, and others from the health risks associated with breathing secondhand smoke.
Quiting smoking reduces the risk of disease and death from cardiovascular disease.
Quiting smoking reduces markers of inflammation and hypercoagulability.
Quiting smoking leads to rapid improvement in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels.
Quiting smoking reduces the development of subclinical atherosclerosis and slows its progression over time.
Quiting smoking reduces the risk of coronary heart disease with risk falling sharply 1-2 years after cessation and then declining more slowly over the longer term.
Quiting smoking reduces the risk of disease and death from stroke with risk approaching that of never smokers after cessation.
Quiting smoking reduces the risk of abdominal aortic aneurysm, with risk reduction increasing with time since cessation.
Quiting smoking may reduce the risk of atrial fibrillation, sudden cardiac death, heart failure, venous thromboembolism, and peripheral arterial disease (PAD).
Quiting smoking after a diagnosis of coronary heart disease reduces the risk of premature death.
Quiting smoking after a diagnosis of coronary heart disease reduces the risk of death from heart disease,
Quiting smoking after a diagnosis of coronary heart disease reduces the risk of having a first heart attack or another heart attack.
Quiting smoking reduces respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough, sputum production, wheezing).
Quiting smoking reduces respiratory infections (e.g. bronchitis, pneumonia).
Quiting smoking may improve lung function, reduce symptoms, and improve treatment outcomes among persons with asthma.
Quiting smoking reduces the risk of 12 different cancers.
Quiting smoking reduces the risk of acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
Quiting smoking reduces the risk of cancer of the bladder, lung, cervix, colon and rectum, esophagus, kidney and liver.
Quiting smoking reduces the risk of  cancer of the mouth and throat, the pancreas, stomach and voice box.
For cancer survivors, quitting smoking may improve prognosis and reduce risk of premature death.
Quiting smoking before pregnancy or early in pregnancy reduces the risk for a small-for-gestational-age baby.
Quiting smoking during pregnancy reduces the risk of delivering a low birth weight baby.
Quiting smoking early in pregnancy eliminates the adverse effects of smoking on fetal growth.
Quiting smoking before pregnancy or early in pregnancy may reduce the risk of preterm delivery.
